All right, we are in the final part of our series and I'm really excited about today.
You guys ready for today?
Yeah, okay.
Awesome.
Half of you need to tell your face, but we're excited about today.
I'm looking forward to part five because
To me, this is a critical part of the conversation.
If you haven't been with us, we've been talking about the role of algorithms in our lives.
And in particular, asking the question, what are algorithms doing to your soul?
How just what are they doing to our mind?
What are they doing to our body?
But what are they actually doing to our soul the amount of time we're spending scrolling?
How is it actually shaping us?
And we've been looking at the fact that the algorithm isn't just about distraction anymore.
It's about formation.
that the algorithms in our lives, they're not just trying to get our attention in order to sell us stuff, they're trying to just get our attention in order to keep us on the feed, but it's more than that, that the algorithms start to form us, they start to shape us, and we've looked at things like, what do you do with the outrage cycle?
How do you know what's a lie and what's true?
We've looked at comparison, and today we're gonna look at something I'm passionate about.
I think,
of all the weeks, of all the things we could talk about, this is the most proactive thing you can do.
This is probably the healthiest thing you can do to make sure that you manage the algorithm and it has a really healthy place in your life.
That if you did this one thing, if you said, well, what could I do of all the things?
If you did this one thing, to me, it's the most important thing that you could do.
And we're gonna start the conversation
today talking about loneliness.
The truth is we're more connected and more lonely than ever before.
That when you look around us in our world, we've never been more connected.
Never have you been connected to more people, never have you been connected to more circles, and never have we been more lonely.
UCLA actually has developed a loneliness index.
Been running since 78.
They tweaked it in the mid-80s.
And it looks at, hey, what is the level of loneliness or feeling alone or feeling disconnected in the US culture?
And three out of five people would say, for prolonged periods of time, I feel alone, disconnected, or lonely.
And the thing about loneliness and disconnection is that the younger you are, the more likely you are to feel lonely.
that the youngest generations are the loneliest generations, and if you're male, you're also more likely to be lonely.
So if you're a young male, you're among the most lonely people currently in our culture, if that's you.
That it's not that we aren't connected, we're connected to all kinds of people, but there's all of this loneliness that we experience.
And so much of this is driven by
the algorithm.
What do I mean by that?
Because our algorithms are continuing to vie for our attention so that we spend more time on our phone.
So as a result, we end up staying connected, but more lonely, right?
You've probably been there when you've been at a restaurant and everybody goes to the restaurant together and you're all excited.
And then what do people do a third of the time they spend?
Everybody's on their phone.
They're all connected, but
you're sort of alone at the same time.
Or maybe once two people go to the bathroom, the three of you are left, you don't have a conversation, you all pick up your phones, because you know in the bathroom, they're on their phones, right?
And so everybody gets on their phone.
We're more connected than ever before, but we're more lonely than we've ever been.
That the algorithm is constantly asking for our attention.
And I want to look at this specifically
today, and today we pulled to find out, hey, what actually about the algorithm pulls your attention away?
Which of the following steals your attention most was the survey we did today?
So let's throw it up here, because I haven't seen this yet.
So just one more video or reel, 59%.
Some of you are like, I'm so glad you didn't put Clash of Clans or any games on here.
But just one more video or reel, 60%, 20%.
group chats, 20%, 11% news politics, 9% online work.
Clearly we would rather watch cat meme videos than work, right?
That's this crowd.
So it's that one more scroll, one more reel, doom scrolling.
Oh, I'll just go on one more time.
It is amazing to me how this has become so much a part of our culture, right?
We can't go anywhere without taking a moment to grab our phone, go on our phone.
Look at the grocery line.
Like what did you do in the grocery line before you had a phone?
You don't even remember, right?
But now we all scroll, we bump into one another.
We used to have a conversation with the person next to you, but now we're so focused.
How did this happen?
Where did this come from?
How did the algorithm pull so many of us in?
How did it create this culture where we're so lonely?
And I don't want to give you a huge sociological history lesson, but I will share with you a little bit
of how this began.
You see what happened is as personal consumption became more convenient, real relationships became less convenient.
See what happened is in 07, as the phone came and then social media arrived on the scene and all of these apps began to arrive, man, consumption became super convenient.
Don't have to go to the store anymore, you can just buy it online and it'll ship it to your house.
You don't have to go to the restaurant anymore.
You can just order it on Uber Eats.
It'll just come to your house.
And it's amazing to me how this world that we live in, you can, at 11.30 at night, be sitting on the couch, in your pajamas, watching Netflix.
And you can say, you know what I'm hungry for?
And whatever that thing is, you can order it and somebody brings it to your house.
You don't even have to get out of your pajamas to eat whatever gourmet you want to eat or whatever burger you want to eat.
It comes right to your house.
It's super convenient.
Shopping, super convenient.
And the argument is, is that online connection with other people also seems convenient.
Well, I can connect with people.
I see this person online.
Oh, their mom passed away.
I can put my condolences in the comments.
I can click the heart.
I can do whatever it is.
And all of a sudden relationships
seem harder.
They seem less convenient.
In-person relationships seem less convenient.
If I said to you, oh, like, here's what I'm thinking.
Why don't we all go to so-and-so's place for dinner?
Or even better, why don't we all come to your house for dinner?
You know what your immediate thought is?
Oh, that sounds like a lot of work.
Oh, having people over,
I've probably got to clean my house, and we've got to figure out what we're going to make.
We've got to coordinate a date that works for everybody.
And all of a sudden, in-person relationships seem a whole lot less convenient than they used to be.
There was a day when it wasn't like that.
But today, that's how many of us feel.
If you're like, well, I want to meet these two people for coffee.
We got to coordinate the time, I got to text them, we got to set it up, we got to get it on the calendar.
And what's happened is for a lot of us, we spend more and more of our life sitting at home in our pajamas, ordering food, watching Netflix, scrolling on, let's be honest, scrolling on social and a lot less time than we could actually connecting in meaningful relationships with people because there's part of it.
that just seems a whole lot less convenient.
Relationships have become difficult.
And what happens is we start to mistake, this is what I'm most concerned about, we start to mistake online things as meaningful relationship.
Here are some things that we are mistaken for meaningful relationship.
Likes, comments and views.
Oh, somebody, look at all these people.
I posted this picture of my kids and 55 people liked it.
We think that's meaningful.
That that's meaningful relationship.
Somebody commented like, love your sweater.
And we're like, oh man, I'm in relationship with that person.
I'm so connected to them.
And how many people like my stories and how many people, how many views we got.
And we get that adrenaline rush and we think that's actually relationship or surface group chats and DMs.
You've been in those, those group chats where you go, I'm not even sure why I'm in this group chat.
It's like just memes and like,
people updating me on the weather or someone that always has to post that inspirational quote every morning, but there's nothing to this.
We're not having any deep conversation with anyone.
This is when you see all the time constant one-way relationships.
Somebody who you follow, you know everything about them.
You listen to their podcasts, you watch them on Instagram, you follow them on Facebook, some kind of celebrity, and if you ever met them face to face, you would say to them, listen,
I know everything about you.
I know your dog's name.
I know what your kids do.
I know what hobbies they do.
I know what books you write.
I know about the trauma you went through last year.
I know about that difficult time you had at the grocery store.
And you knew everything about them and they know nothing about you.
You know what that's called in real life?
That's called the stalkers, what that's called.
But it's like, no, no, I have relationship with them.
When something happens in their life, you're moved by the drama of their life.
You're not in a meaningful relationship with that person, you're just not.
But we think that we are.
Or identity and outrage groups, which we talked about a little bit.
This group of people who think like I think or are upset about the things I'm upset about.
When I get with those people online, these are my people and we start to think those are actually meaningful relationships.
And that's what the algorithm
partly pushes in our lives.
That as our lives get more and more and more challenging, the algorithm pulls our challenging lives toward isolation.
The algorithm starts to pull us towards isolation.
I see this all the time.
You have a difficult day.
The place you go, you start scrolling on your phone.
You have a difficult conversation at work.
You step away to get a break or you tell people you have to use the washroom because that's where you go on your phone.
And you get a break.
It's like an escapism.
It's a release.
And the algorithm builds that in us.
That is being hardwired into you.
That like, oh, when I have a difficult time, the thing I do is I pull out my phone.
When something hard is happening, the thing I do.
When I want to escape from the world, the thing I do.
When I need an adrenaline kick, the thing I do is I go on my phone.
And the algorithm continues to pull us and pull us and pull us away from actual meaningful relationships.
in our life.
And we end up living isolated lives, connected but isolated.
That's why in 2022, the Surgeon General in the US said loneliness is an epidemic in the US culture.
That 50% of people in the US at that point in 2022 would say I'm lonely.
That I don't really have any meaningful relationships with people.
and the algorithm continues to pull us towards isolated lives.
How do you stay healthy when the algorithm tempts you to isolate to keep your attention?
What do you do about this continual temptation to isolate, isolate, isolate?
That's what I wanna talk about today.
And we're gonna look at the book of Hebrews.
I'm gonna look at a passage I don't think I've ever taught on before.
And what you're gonna see in Hebrews here
is you're going to see a group of people, they're Jewish, and they've converted from Judaism to Christianity.
They believe Jesus is the promised one, the Messiah, and they're following him.
But they're in a real high pressure situation.
Here's the pressure situation they're in.
On one hand, they have their friends who are still practicing Jews, who are continuing to want to pull them towards the temple ceremonies that they've done before.
sacrificing animals for forgiveness, going through water cleansing ceremonies.
And the whole idea is that you need a high priest between you and God.
But because Jesus has died, they believe He's the chosen one.
He's made the way to God.
You can have a personal relationship with God because He sacrificed once and all, once for all on the cross.
But they keep getting tempted to go back to the old ways because all their friends
are doing that.
Their friends are like, hey, you got to come back.
And at the same time, they're living in a Roman culture.
They're occupied by the Romans who don't really like them.
They don't really fit in a box to them.
And they're a little bit under pressure from both sides.
And what happens is they start to isolate themselves.
And when you read Hebrews, you see all of these continued encouragements around this isolation that, hey, don't isolate yourselves.
Let's pull together here.
Let's rally together here.
And what happens is we see under pressure,
What can they do to not isolate themselves?
And this is what it says in Hebrews chapter 10.
It says, And so, dear brothers and sisters, we can boldly enter heaven's most holy place because of the blood of Jesus.
By his death, Jesus opened a new and life-giving way through the curtain into the most holy place.
Now, what is this about?
In the temple at the time, when they were practicing Jews, there was a holy place where God was present and they needed to go through these ceremonies.
They needed a priest to get there.
And he's reminding them, guys, you don't need to do that anymore.
You don't want to do that anymore.
Listen, you've got Jesus now.
Jesus is changing your lives.
He died.
He rose again.
He's transforming lives.
You can have direct access to God.
And he says this, and since we have a great high priest who rules over God's house, let's go right into the presence of God with sincere hearts, fully trusting in him.
Guys, lean into your faith.
When you're under pressure, lean into who Jesus is.
Don't forget who he is.
And then he says this, for our guilty consciences have been sprinkled with Christ's blood to make us clean and our bodies have been made washed with pure water.
He starts alluding to those former ceremonies and saying, we don't have to do that anymore because of what Jesus has done for us.
He lived a perfect life.
The Son of God died on a cross so that when we believe in him, we can have direct access to God.
Guys, you can't forget it.
Stop pulling away.
Stop isolating.
And then he says this, let us hold tightly without wavering to the hope we affirm for God can be trusted to keep his promise.
What's interesting to me here is the choice of pronoun.
He doesn't say you hold tightly.
He doesn't say you affirm.
He says we.
There's an element of
Guys, rally together here.
We're in community here.
We're in relationship here.
We want to rally together around the fact that we can trust in Jesus.
I want to give you an illustration of kind of the spirit of this passage.
I don't know if you've ever had the privilege of going to, anybody here has the privilege of going to Yosemite.
But last thing I went to Yosemite to see the Sequoia trees recently.
And these trees are like 200 to 300 feet.
They're beautiful stunning trees.
And when you see a 200, 300-foot tree, it's a pretty impressive thing.
And you think to yourself, man, for a tree to grow that tall and to stand that strong, it must have really deep roots.
Like, how deep are the roots of a 300-foot tree?
And these are actually us standing in front of the roots of one of them that fell over.
And the roots of these 200, 300-foot trees
are only 6 to 12 feet deep.
So how do they stand so strong?
The way they stand strong is the roots are all connected to one another.
They create like a network of roots that they hold strong because they hold together.
That is the spirit of Hebrews.
That is what he's talking about in this passage.
Come together, we have to affirm, we have to pull together and remind ourselves of what Jesus has done.
Unwavering, another translation says unswervingly.
We've got to grip it tight and we've got to point in a straight line towards the promises of Jesus and what He wants for our lives and the way they're gonna do it is we're gonna do it together.
We gotta rally together.
He says, let us think.
He says, let us together.
This is what we're gonna do.
Let us think of ways.
to motivate one another, to acts of love and good works.
Now I love this call to motivation.
Cause in order to motivate somebody, you have to actually know them.
You have to actually know them at a pretty deep level.
If you go to a trainer today and you say, Hey, I want to get fit and eat healthy.
You know the question they often ask?
Why?
And you're like, why?
I just want to eat and get healthy.
And they say, Oh, no, like,
but why do you want to do it?
Well, because I want to be healthy for my kids or because, you know, I was looking at, I met with a doctor and he says I need to get healthier.
And so I just feel overall, I want to feel better or I need to, they want to know the why behind it.
They want to know what's motivating you.
I remember the first time I sat down with a financial planner and we were like, okay, we have to figure out how to manage our money.
And we sit down and he says, okay, we're going to start.
He says, my first question, what are your dreams?
I'm like, dreams?
I'm not here to talk about dreams.
I thought we were here to talk about my bank account.
But what he's trying to do is he's trying to get to know me.
It's only in really knowing people that you can motivate one another.
It's only in really understanding people.
And this is what he's getting at is, guys, together you've got to be known to one another.
You've got to get to know one another.
You've got to rally together.
You've got to have real relationships.
When it comes to their gatherings, these are small gatherings of people, people who are doing life together.
He's saying, don't isolate yourselves.
You gotta really know one another, what motivates one another and get in one another's corner and point each other to Jesus.
To me, there's a tool that I've used before.
I'm gonna use it today and I promise in the future I'll use it again because I find it so helpful.
Some of you have seen it, but it helps you understand how known you really are.
There was a study done by an Oxford professor.
His name was Dunbar.
And he looked at, cognitively, how many close relationships can you actually have in your life?
And this is what's called Dunbar's number.
And they figured out in this study that cognitively, 150 relationships is the number of relationships that you can maintain, 150.
Now, 1500 out here, that's kind of the number of names you can know.
People can go, oh, yeah, I've seen you before.
Your name is about 1500.
It's out that way.
And 150 is the number you can maintain.
And then 35 would be closer relationships.
And 15 would be even closer.
And then the people who know you the best, who know everything about you is between five and 15.
It's kind of five to 20.
And in particular, those five,
then that's the number of people who can really know you, can really have a meaningful relationship.
They know everything about you and you know everything about them.
People who can really speak into your life, the people you laugh with, the people you cry with, the people who are checking in on you, the people who know what's happening in your life on a day-to-day basis, not including people you're married to if you're married.
That these are the five people who really know you.
Now, here's the thing.
If I say to you, show me your 1500,
You can do that very, very easily.
All you gotta do is hold up your phone and open Instagram, Facebook, TikTok, and you go, well, here's 1,500 people I know.
It's easy.
If I say, show me the five people who really know you, most people can't give it to me.
Most people don't have five to 20 people who really know them, who know what's going on in their life, who know their struggles,
who know what motivates them, who know where they failed, who know where they've done well, who are speaking to their life.
Most people don't have five people like that.
That we're really, really connected, but we're not really known.
And the thing about relationships down to this end, you know what they are?
Inconvenient.
These are convenient, right?
like scroll, share.
But these relationships down here, the ones that we actually need, the one that the writer of Hebrews is actually calling us to, these actually take work.
See, meaningful relationships, they aren't something you fall into.
They're something you gotta fight for.
You gotta invest in.
You gotta spend time.
You gotta say, hey, let's get together for coffee.
You gotta say, hey, why don't you come over for dinner?
You've gotta say, hey, I'm calling to check.
I'm not texting, I'm calling.
Do some of you remember phone calls?
Calling to check in on you, to have a conversation, to see how you are, meaningful relationships.
There's something you've got to actually invest in.
You've got to be known.
He goes on and he explains, he says, and let us,
not neglect our meeting together.
This isn't just about church gathering, although that's important.
It's about man, being in relationship together.
Let's not neglect hanging out together.
Let's not neglect speaking into one another's lives as some people do, but encourage one another, especially now that the day of his return is drawing near.
We've got to continue to encourage one another and be involved in one another's lives and have relationship together and
People who are laughing with, and we're crying with, and people who are known by.
See, the answer to all the isolation in our world isn't to be connected to many.
It's being deeply known by a few.
And this is where the algorithm leads us astray.
It makes us think that what we want in our life is to be connected to a whole bunch of people.
But what you really want
is to be really known by a few.
Kurt Thompson wrote a book called, called The Soul of Shame.
And he says this, we are all born, it's a great book.
He says, we're all born into this world looking for someone who is looking for us.
And what the algorithm tries to convince us of is that we just wanna be connected to a whole bunch of people.
And it's not what our soul really craves.
Our soul really craves to be known.
To have people in our lives are gonna show up when it gets hard.
When you get that diagnosis and you're like, man, this sucks.
And they're gonna show up and remind you who Jesus is to you.
People who are gonna show up when things are going great because they wanna celebrate you and they wanna cheer you on because they care about where you're at.
People who are reaching out to you saying, hey, I know you've got that big day at work today and I just want you to know I'm praying for you.
It's being known that our soul actually craves.
There's a guy named Arthur Brooks.
He's a Harvard professor, wrote a great book called Strength to Strength.
And in that book, he talks about real friends versus deal friends.
A deal friends are the kind of friends who your friends because of
kind of a mutual thing you all want.
So your friends because you all work together or your friends because you all work out at the same gym or your friends because you all went to the same school.
Those are deal friends.
The thing with deal friends is once that time is over, most of those friends disappear.
Real friends are friends who it's about mutual care.
You're actually together because the purpose of being together is to care for one another.
to speak into one another's lives, to actually know what's happening with one another.
I mean, how many people do you know that the day they retire, they lose all their friends?
They're gone.
It's not like they were mad.
They're not like, you retire, I'm not gonna be your friend anymore.
They're just gonna all keep working and you're gonna retire because they're deal friends.
How do you find the real friends?
How do you find real friends versus deal friends?
How do you find friendships where you're actually known?
The people here are gonna show up.
Gonna show up when your mom passes away or your dad passes away or your spouse passes away or the friends are gonna show up the day you pass away.
And cause they're gonna know you and celebrate you and share stories about you.
How do you find those people who really, really know you?
I'm super passionate about this topic for two reasons.
I love teaching the Bible but the reason I'm passionate about this topic
is because I desperately want this for everybody.
And this is something, I'm not good at a lot of things, but personally in my personal life, I'm really good at this one.
That I have, I have five friends, actually 10, two groups of five, but one group of five friends that are closest, who I meet with for two to three days, at least twice a year, we get together.
Have the opportunity to hang out and to speak into one another's lives.
And one of those guys, his name's Matt, and he texts me every single Sunday morning.
He's a pastor before I even wake up, because he's on the East Coast.
And he texts me to say to me, Jeff, I just want you to know I'm praying for you.
And then he always prays something specific in the text.
And you know what it's usually about?
It's usually about how my identity is in Jesus and not in this church.
That I'm a son of God.
And that some days it goes well here and some days it doesn't.
But either way, God knows me as his son.
That generally is the thing.
And I get that every Sunday morning before I walk up here.
That's a real friend.
How do you get real friends?
Friends who know you, who know what's going on in your life?
Because we don't need more connections.
We need to be more known by a few.
What motivates us, what encourages us, to point us to Jesus.
And honestly, sometimes to call us out on the crap in our lives, right?
And so what I want to do today is I've read widely on this.
One of the best books is Finding Your People by Jenny Allen.
And what I want to do is give you a tool to help you build real friendships, to help you actually do it.
And it starts with proximity.
So we're going to put the first one at proximity.
Proximity is if you want to make friends, you have to be with other human beings.
That's where it starts.
So all the introverts are like, I'm out already.
I don't even want to do this.
But you've got to be with other people.
You've got to rub shoulders with people.
This is one of the reasons that we have small groups here and we have volunteer teams.
We're trying to get you in proximity with other people.
I'm not arguing everybody's going to become your best friend, but you can't be known by people if you're not actually with human beings.
And then that's pretty simple.
And the second one is purpose.
There has to be some kind of purpose to it.
There has to be some kind of goal to it.
So with our small groups, you're studying the Bible, you have an opportunity to build community together, you're often having food together.
That's purpose.
For you, it might be, hey, we golf once a week.
It might be, hey, we get together once a week because we're working on this or we're passionate about that or we want to answer this question or whatever it is.
There's got to be some kind of purpose, otherwise the gathering, the connection with that person dies out.
proximity.
This is all in what we just read in Hebrews, right?
Don't give up meeting together.
You've got to do this on a regular basis, and the purpose, encourage one another.
The purpose is continue to point people to the promises of Jesus.
That's purpose.
Now, that's fairly easy.
It's the next one that people struggle with, and that's transparency.
At a certain point, somebody in the relationship has got to be authentic.
Last week I was out for dinner with a group of guys, and we sat down, we're eating, and then one of the guys says, well, I'm gonna ask a question, I want everybody to answer it.
So, you know, we're talking about our kids and life and whatever, and he says, here's the question.
What's one thing that a year from now you hope about your life will be radically different?
And then you're like, oh, okay, we're going there.
This is where we're going now, right?
You've been there.
Somebody and he said, and this is what he said.
So we're all like, oh man, I was like, this is going somewhere.
And then he says this, while you're thinking I will go first.
See, often we want the other person to go first.
I want to be their friend.
They need to be transparent with me.
But the way this works is we have to go first.
And you're like, but I might get hurt.
Yeah.
I'm not going to tell you any different.
You might.
It's not convenient.
There's nothing convenient about intentional relationships where you know one another.
You've got to fight for them.
So to go to someone and say, listen, I want to be transparent.
I want to share this with you.
That's where the relationships turn a corner is transparency, telling you what motivates me, what encourages me, where I struggle, all of those things.
And then the next one is consistency.
Do not give up meeting together.
It's consistency.
You've got to be consistent.
I mean, you go out for coffee with that person.
So you get together, you get it on the calendar, your coffee, golf, ski, whatever it is, you go out.
You have a great time.
And then this is what you say at the end, always.
Oh, that was awesome.
So great.
Loved it.
We should do it again sometime.
Yeah, again sometime.
And then you leave.
You know what again sometime means?
Never.
You got to take out your phone.
This is deep theological stuff.
Take out your phone and put it in the calendar.
This is the next time we will get together.
We are putting it in right now.
That at a certain point, you have to do it in a consistent way.
That's why joining a team here or being in a group here, they're consistent.
They're on the schedule.
There's consistent purpose.
That's one of the reasons we do them.
because it gives you a place to build relationship.
But you can do that yourself continuing to set up, hey, we're going to get together on a regular basis and here's why.
Now the last one is maybe the most powerful one, but it's the most difficult one.
And the last one is accountability.
Accountability.
To me, that's the peak.
I have these five friends who I hang out with who I'm telling you, I've got another five as well.
and accountability is the part that even now I find the most difficult.
Nobody likes to be called out on their crap, right?
When I'm on the phone with my buddy Chris and I bring, and I'm venting about something and he says, hmm, maybe you really are a bad husband.
I'm like, what?
That's not what I want to hear.
You're supposed to point me to like Grace.
He's like, Grace, I think you're being a bit of an idiot, right?
Maybe I know like,
You know, I really screwed up with my kid.
Sounds like you really did.
But let me tell you, God's with you, God's grace is with you, holding me accountable, speaking in my life.
Those are not easy things, but it's how I grow.
It's how I get better.
And people think I want, like I would love a friendship with accountability.
And usually what they mean is, I would love to hold that person accountable.
But that's not what this is.
Accountability is,
I'm giving you, and you have to say this out loud, I'm giving you permission for you to call me on my stuff.
I'm giving you permission to speak it in my life.
I'm giving you permission to point out what you see.
That's accountability.
See, at the end of the day, the algorithm doesn't give you any of this.
And the other part of this is, you know, now what you see is some people would say,
The way that I'm known, the way that I'm gonna be known is AI is gonna know me.
I'm gonna have my conversations with chat GPT.
I don't need another human being.
But man, AI can never substitute for a friend filled with the Holy Spirit, speaking in your life and praying over you.
It can't.
See, the answer to isolation isn't to be connected to many.
It's being deeply known by a few.
And my question is, who are your few?
Who are your few that point you to Jesus on the most difficult days?
Who are your few that point you to who God is on the most challenging days?
Who are the ones who are there in the good times and the bad times?
Who are the ones that when you retire, you're gonna vacation with?
Who are the ones that when you pass away, they're going to come and look after your spouse?
Who are the ones who are checking in with you on a regular basis?
Who's your circle?
This is another circle of mine.
I've got two circles.
I said this is another one.
We get together twice a year.
I'm telling you, it's super inconvenient.
In this case, we've got to get flights.
We've got to get places.
We've got to get worked on.
We've got to cover the kids.
It is very inconvenient.
But without the two groups that I have like this, I'm not here today.
I'm not pastoring a church today.
I'm not leading a church today.
I'm not the dad I am today.
I'm not the husband I am today.
I am 20% of the person I am today without this.
And I want that for you.
I am begging you to be brave if you don't have this.
I'm begging you to be brave enough to get in proximity.
And if you're like, well, I'm at proximity, I'm at proximity and purpose, then maybe you need to move with a friend to transparency.
Well, I'm at transparency.
Well, then maybe you need to move that transparent relationship to a consistent relationship.
Be regularly with that person.
when you're transparent with them.
And then maybe if you're like, I am regular with them, I'm transparent with them, have you given them permission to hold you accountable?
And I know some of you are like, I don't, I can't even name, I don't even have five to name.
I don't even have five to name.
And if that's you, I grieve for your soul.
For what you're missing.
that God doesn't want that for you.
And I'm not telling you that to make you feel guilty at all.
I hope you don't hear that.
It's not about guilt.
It's just about, I'm just sitting with you in it to say, man, there's so much more for you.
Jesus wants so much more for you.
The writer of Hebrews wants so much more for you.
I want so much more for you.
But it will be inconvenient.
You will have to make hard choices.
Now, if you're here today and you're like, okay, I don't know where to start.
I need some people.
I need some proximity.
It's a good time here.
It connects us for you.
A, we have teams that you can join.
And B, we have groups currently launching.
In the C pocket in front of you, there's a card that looks like you got to flip it over to the orange side.
Take it with you if you want.
And you scan that, sign up for a group or sign up for a team.
Now, if you sign up for a group, I'm telling you right now.
You're immediately going to go, this is what you're going to do.
You're going to look at the list and you're going to say, oh, none of these nights work for me.
I wish this was more convenient.
All right?
If you want to be known by people, if you can't even make a night work, you are not going to be showing up when those people have a hard time.
You're just not.
You're not even willing to move a night, let alone show up when someone's life goes off the rails.
Friendship is inconvenient.
So you're gonna have to pick a night, look for a night and then you're gonna go and this is what's gonna happen.
I guarantee you this will happen.
You're gonna go, I wouldn't normally like hang out with these kind of people.
Like that guy's weird and like she's like, I don't know what she's doing over there.
And you're gonna pick it apart because it's, these people are not convenient.
Guess what?
People are not convenient.
And I'm not saying you're gonna come best friends with everybody there, but you might become close with somebody there.
And you will begin to become comfortable with being known.
Because you've been trained by the algorithm some of you to hide for a long time behind shallow relationships and fake connection.
And so this is a muscle you haven't exercised in a long time.
to be actually transparent with human beings sitting in the same room.
But here's the thing.
It's what your soul actually wants.
It's what your soul's actually looking for.
And it's the most powerful thing in your life when it comes to pointing you to Jesus.
Let me pray for you.
God, we come to you today and we thank you for
the gift of your son Jesus, his sacrifice on the cross, the hope that that is for us.
God, may we have people in our lives who are known by us and who know us that can point us to you, to who you are, to a relationship with you.
God, we recognize that because relationships seem inconvenient, we confess that sometimes we don't pursue them in the way you call us to.
May we not just have great friends in our life, but may we be great friends.
Transparent friends, friends who show up, friends who are consistent.
Not just for our own souls, but that we might point one another to Jesus, that we might hold steady and hold firm in an unswerving way around the promises of Jesus in a pressurized world.
God, I pray for those who are here today that are already processing a lot.
I pray that your spirit would meet them and speak to them and bring the right people their way.
May we be the kind of people who fight for a relationship.
And we pray this in your name, amen.